let's just say that Jesus did live let's
say he was a real man who lived preached
and had a small gathering of followers
not aware of him killing millions of
people in the Bible he doesn't call for
the mass extermination oh neither did
Karl Marx you idiot I don't want my
daughter worshiping the Communist
Manifesto either the principles that
made communism so violent they are in
the writing of Karl Marx and that's why
I reject even the writing of Karl Marx
oh gee the fictional character of Jesus
didn't personally murder much neither
did Mao Zedong's he didn't personally
murder millions people celebrating the
life of Mao Zedong represents your
approval of oh my god this is just the
stupidest or use is this guy still in
high school I can't guess his age by his
voice in the Bible he doesn't call for
the mass extermination of Jews he
doesn't set up goo legs or concentration
camps
he didn't starve to torture or imprison
his political adversaries to compare
Jesus to Hitler or Stalin is silly now
I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I did not
you're just misrepresenting me I
compared Christianity the empires of
Christendom to the Nazi Empire and the
various communist empires such as the
Soviet Union and China it was very clear
what I said and I asked you a question
that you dodged you didn't answer I said
which one has killed more people okay
why is why is Australia full of white
people speaking English how did that
happen homie do you think the Christian
Church here in Chrismukkah is all of
North America and South America full of
people speaking Spanish in South America
she wowed in Spanish and Portuguese
become the majority language of Mexico
and everything south of there you got
you got the impact inside on that
how did Spanish and Portuguese become
such widely spoken languages white why
isn't it one of the languages of edenia
why isn't everyone speaking Sanskrit
homey the history of genocide committed
in Jesus's name is real the sickest
thing of all is understanding that the
Catholic Church from their perspective
had good intentions in carrying out that
genocide because they they believed good
and evil as they got it from the Bible
do you think you could have this
perspective whiteboy if you were born
Cree or a Jib way or an indigenous
person of the Hawaiian Islands do you
think you would have this perspective
that Christianity and Christmas is
harmless if you were one of the last
people struggling to speak the
indigenous languages of California like
Yurok or out in the middle of the
Arizona desert trying to cling to the
last of the Denny languages if you were
ethnically a member of one of the
peoples destroyed by Christianity I do
sympathize with your point here and I
don't think you're entirely wrong either
so why didn't you make a video saying
that exactly what when I won the last
minute of the video exactly what has
been missing here is sympathy you
couldn't open with this is a middle-aged
man I'm 40 years old I have a five year
old daughter this is a man who wants to
do better for his own daughter and his
own family who's struggling to bide an
alternative de Christmas and something
meaningful in his daughter's life and
who's interested in publishing this
story book so you also with way less
effort can buy the story book and read
your kids something meaningful that's
not rooted in Christianity or communism
or Islam or something awful why isn't
there sympathy and why isn't there a
positive tendency like I said before to
recruit talent for us to work together
II meant no new Canosa so what I do on
YouTube has changed from one period to
the next and everything I've done on
YouTube up to this point the year 2018
ending has been a combination of the
personal and the political like when I
talk about First Nations politics
indigenous people genocide history
colonialism it's personal its political
but it doesn't have the quality of a
detached academic lecture or
presentation that was a decision I made
from the first moment I got on YouTube
now what I'm doing
foreshadowing hashtag spoiler it's gonna
change in 2019 I'm changing my format
I'm changing what I'm doing but I've
really been reminded about how
phony and insincere most of the
discourse here is on YouTube and even
worse on reddit reddit is really I don't
even do I don't even do Facebook groups
I haven't for years I don't know yes
that's right
no they're still yeah they're there's at
least one reddit group I still this is
not this is not a promo for my Facebook
group but look you know um when I came
out with starting to talk about my
attempt to offer my own daughter a
superior alternative to pop culture
entertainments and modern Western
secularized Christmas it's it's personal
and its political it's real you know I
really am writing this series of poems
series of new children's stories that I
think I will eventually publish as a
book or maybe a series of children's
books they're gonna be Illustrated they
could be made into show some short
cartoons here on YouTube and to promote
the book or something this is a creative
project I'm engaged in and the level of
cynicism and hostility I got back it
reflects partly something that's just
wrong with the internet but it reflects
something that's wrong with activism on
the Internet and I think I can say that
I think that's true of the kind of
stereotypical left-wing social justice
warrior activism I think it's true of
the stereotypical right wing or alt
right or I don't know TRADD thought
conservatism I think it's true of vegan
I think it's true of a lot of things
what we've come into is a really weird
period of the culture of complaint so as
one example this it's always misleading
to use quote
selective quotations of what your
opponents have to say but I got a
comment on YouTube just yesterday of
someone saying to me you know and it has
this kind of spirit of the 4chan
over-the-top comment or the reddit you
know insulting backhanded compliment
kind of thing this guy wrote to me with
with all due self-confidence saying no
you're totally wrong
atheists don't need to be activists they
don't need to get politically organized
to try to change the society or culture
where they're living all we need to do
is laugh at and ridicule the people who
still believe in religion and the
Internet has really magnified that
sentiment across the board I think there
are a lot of anti-racist people and they
might not say at that openly but they
really think the way to make society
less racist is by coming on Twitter or
coming on reddit and ridiculing people
for being racist yeah I think I think
that's one of the cross cross currents
yeah I don't think it's the main one
because I mean veganism is in some ways
a strangely upbeat optimistic and
compassion driven you know movement and
you see that agony you know one of my
first hit videos was called the agony of
of activism and I break down weeping and
it briefly and you talk about going to a
slaughterhouse and seeing and hearing
pigs getting slaughtered most of these
other movements don't have that kind of
touchstone of like hey I know what it's
like to watch a pig have its throat slit
and bleed to death and I know what you
know like it doesn't have that kind of
yeah today the anti-racist movement
right I mean of course there's centuries
of races right racism right go off of
there but well are you personally
touched by it in that kind of yeah in a
it moving way right right right right
so yeah I mean you know it's also
obviously the case that ridicule is easy
to do and organizing real political
opposition mobilizing people to
influence Congress is not so easy
yeah and doing something like writing
and publishing an original story book is
not easy yeah so it's right from my
perspective what I'm doing is just
totally positive in this case and I mean
look agent as it is if you don't know my
channel
I don't think marching up and down the
street holding a placard and shouting
that Parliament I don't think that kind
of street protests
percent positive I think it's mostly a
waste of people's time and there are
negative elements to it and I've talked
about this before the people who are
just trying to go to work and have to
you know have to literally walk past the
protesters every day it actually does
have negative impacts on perception
there are advantages and disadvantages
to street demonstrations I think there's
a lot of yeah a lot of people are
kidding themselves about conventional
political protest in terms of jockeying
for culture and political change but if
you're talking about giving people an
alternative like hey you know what
Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer it sucks
why why are you teaching your children
this you know I mean I think ironically
this is something most conservative
Christians would agree with also they'd
say why are we doing this why are we
worshiping like a cultural icon that was
mostly invented by the coca-cola
corporation you know dude how is this
what Christmas again we're downtown and
the bus system here they actually have a
Santa like somebody dressed up as Santa
driving one of the buses around down
right right wire right why are we all
complicitous either from a Christian or
an atheist perspective at some point
just taking a step back and saying the
meaninglessness of this whether you
regard it as commercial and secular or
as something linked to a religion I
actually suppose it's a bit chafing this
is a poem for me and again just
positively hey we can do better know the
other side of it again I mean okay I'll
save more about this you know to what
extent do I expect anyone on the
internet to respect my opinion or treat
me like a human being my expectations
are pretty low I have five years of
experience being a public figure on the
Internet and over 1,000 videos and over
3.2 million views on YouTube and even
before that I was really a public figure
in Buddhism as a highly critical free
thinking nihilistic philosopher and
scholar within the Buddhist religion and
of course I got a lot of negative
reactions to what I was to what I was
doing there however my daughter is
bright I'm not going to do the most
parents Nina oh my kids a genius
not I'm not gonna see that but my
daughter I think she's like a lot of
kids which is that she often says things
that are kind of remarkably sharp and
witty and insightful and then you only
figure out later on that she memorized
that from a TV program or from a story
book some of the things she said to us
are sentences memorized from a
children's storybook and only later we
read the story or you know we figure out
how much of her vocabulary and how much
of her behavior is mimicry of cultural
sources okay Christmas is one of those
holidays that is celebrated every year
and there were components of Christmas
that are taught in schools and there
were Christmas fables and songs that are
played over the loudspeaker in coffee
shops and shopping centers and while you
buy your groceries the extent to which
my daughter memorizes and internalizes a
cartoon from Netflix you know these days
it's mostly not conventional TV
broadcasting or her favorite storybooks
or songs she sings at school some of the
songs she learns are at school it's it's
something to be taken really seriously
so even if your position is oh well
Christmas is meaningless look I think
Curious George is meaningless that's not
the end of the debate that's not the end
of the conversation why can't we step
back and say whoa let's deal with the
burden of meaninglessness here like how
is it in your mind that meaningless
equals good if your argument is that
Christmas is genuinely just as
meaningless as Curious George to be okay
both of those from your problematic I
don't want my daughter's whole life and
culture and outlook to be shaped by crap
like Curious George and Mickey Mouse and
Donald Duck again yes of Mickey Mouse is
not evil you mean and it's true Mickey
Mouse and Donald Duck and
Curious George they're not linked to a
religion that is guilty of genocide on
several continents the way Christmas is
it is different but we don't solve the
problem by by emphasizing the extent to
which Christmas is similar to other
purely commercial children's products we
only further explain that right you want
to jump in yes I'm gonna I'm gonna click
it so I'm gonna click on one on one
response to this and this is titled the
atheist who stole Christmas and we'll
see what he says but at this point
obviously my expectation is the more the
same that this is just gonna be a
completely hostile completely negative
response from someone who again the way
I posed this initially was to draw
attention to the difference between
destructive and creative aspects of
atheism nihilism and the pursuit of
cultural change the most successful
political movements are going to be
political movements that achieve the
cultural change first and then pursued
the legislative formerly political
element second really quickly in Canada
the culture accepted homosexuality
decades before legislation normalized
homosexuality so I mean homosexuality in
general you can use gay marriage in
specific but probably the most important
part of that was the protection of
employment rights for gay people that
you couldn't be fired from your job for
being gay you couldn't be fired for
being a schoolteacher because you're gay
so the cultural change happened first
that was the big struggle and then the
legal and formal parliamentary political
changes were relatively easy if you want
to pass the same law in Saudi Arabia
Malaysia Indonesia you're gonna have a
very different struggle on your hands
right because the cultural change hasn't
happened first there you're talking with
the legal and political change being
forced on people first and the culture
catching up what have you afterwards
right and I could throw it a million
examples here we're not going to do that
so in terms of what's possible for
powerless people
like myself the pursuit of cultural
changes is really meaningful and so I
just did okay I have a lot to say about
this less simple this without even
applying the video okay but Melissa you
remember we were walking down the street
the other day and we passed a dressmaker
shop a fashion shop and it's in it's in
an expensive neighborhood here in
Victoria I would assume that a hundred
percent of their customers are wealthy
elderly white women wealthy white women
over the age of 50 let's say okay and I
said you you know what in political
movements and in fashion and
entertainment and theatre and in many
different walks of life one of the signs
that what you're doing is legitimate is
that you're actually looking to recruit
new talent if what you're trying to do
in fashion it is recruit new talent say
hey yeah we have this dressmaker hey wow
great we'd love to meet someone who's
just graduated from fashion school who's
a designer and really knows how to cut
fabric and really know set it to
something new that's a sign that what
you're doing is legitimate that you're a
legitimately out there trying to do
whatever it is a dressmaker does do
whatever it is you can to contribute to
fashion or your own movement you own
whatever your own movement within
fashion put it that way you know and in
the contrary a shop like that the one we
walked past I said I can guarantee to
you if you walked into that shop with
your resume in hand and said hey I just
graduated from the School of Art and
Design in New York City or Milan I'm a
young up-and-coming dressmaker and
fashion designer I really know how to
cut fabric I'm really ambitious you know
and you know I'm really I'm really
looking to start at the bottom and get
some experience making dresses in a shop
like this what they say to you is look
we're not hiring we're not really
looking to expand what we do here in any
way we're not looking to make any new
styles or patterns you know we're just
making money recycling old crap to a
rich elderly people or not you know
sorry in a sense this is not a real
dress maker this is not this is not real
fashion that's not what's really going
on here
and it's always bothered me I mean
whether it's vegans looking at what I'm
doing
atheists so-called atheist activists
secular activists New Atheists looking
at what I'm doing on the internet or
even within Buddhism Asian Studies
politics why is it so lacking the
capacity for people to want to recruit
talent what does it say about you in
your institution in your organization so
I could mention a million different
forums that I haven't been I'm not
welcome to speak at and channels are not
welcome to to collaborate with where you
know so again even if you just look at
the videos if you just look at the
videos that uploaded YouTube within the
last one month there's really good
reason why a an atheist some other
atheist youtuber atheist activist could
look over this stuff and say oh hey you
know what this guy is this guy is talent
this guy is something positive can
contribute even if you disagree with me
but believe me do you think dressmakers
do you think fashionistas do you think
people in the fashion industry all agree
with each other no of course not they
have deep bitter disagreements about
matters of style that you and I are
invisible or don't matter at all
likewise people within veganism people
within Buddhism people within
humanitarian work people within atheist
activism they're gonna be disagreements
some of which are substantive and some
of which may be more petty but okay I'm
just looking at the list of videos I did
within the last month critique of I'll
and double toll on atheism 2.0 response
to Monkey Jones getting his you know
channel banned the atheism is
destructive not atheism being creative
not destructive there are of course a
whole bunch of videos about veganism
dating to what extent is Buddhism a
philosophy about the health effects of
antidepressants okay there's a whole lot
of substantive content here and guys I'm
in the opposite position all the time
people write to me asking to collaborate
with me asking to cooperation there's
something I have to look at their
channel and look at what videos they've
made over the last couple of months and
I have to make a judgment is this
someone I could work with is this
someone I could cosign or collaborate
with us
but the the absence of any capacity for
recruiting new talent cooperating and
collaborating it shows in a sense that
your movement is fake
like if peda People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals is not open to
working with me what does that say about
peda and if you dial back it's about
twenty years ago they were open to
working with Gary Yourofsky it's a
little bit shocking and embarrassing to
both sides there you know they used to
take on some really edgy and offensive
people as their as their formal
spokespeople they put support pipe so
you can see those specific institutions
they're willing to take a risk they're
going to get involved with someone who
is some really offensive in extreme
opinions so I think some institutions
and political movements go through
different phases where the doors are
open and they're interested in
collaborating with people interested in
recruiting new content new sorry
recruiting new talent and they can go
through a more narrow phase where
nobody's allowed in and the doors are
closed and like that shop they're just
trying to keep making money off of the
repeating the same pattern repeating the
same on YouTube repeating the same
content they're out here so I feel like
we're in a period of time when certainly
the atheist and secular category has
really become very very dark and dim and
closed
all right so I have a lot to say before
president play in front of so many
topics I don't even know how I could you
know that's like seven minutes I wish I
had something to say for each of those
topics but then it would be like an hour
long and you know the point of the video
was to I mean I can complain about how
much I hate that it's inescapable I mean
right walking around downtown
I can't escape Christmas and I don't
even know why these white conservative
people think that it's an issue at all
that you're trying to take Christ out of
Christmas or like trying to remove
Christmas at all and oh it's it's too PC
to say season's greetings or whatever
but I think really and she clear-- by
the Santa everywhere is like lights I
was like your your experience is not
just in Canada Canada in the United
States we have a lobster's there's also
in your
right edges mission in terms of walking
around of having the president so yeah I
mean like just this morning I was
walking you know I took a walk at like
6:00 in the morning and I didn't realize
there's a construction site that we
walked by they put Christmas lights all
over the construction sites right to
make it more festive and stuff and I
mean like I see how much effort is put
into decorating and you know completely
changing the decor and in grocery stores
and you know department stores basically
everywhere you go even the gym that we
go to like they put you know flakes on
all the gym equipment they have this
like you know 25 days of Christmas acts
of kindness that you can do and
everything's just decked out there's
even a Christmas tree and like they have
a drawing up like the Santa that's buff
or something you know yeah merry lift
miss you know so I mean I can't escape
it and when you know I sit down in
Starbucks with Isola to sit down and
work on Chinese for me it really bothers
me that everywhere I go there's music
playing like I mean if you think back
just like 50 years ago music was more of
like a special-occasion thing like you
only heard it when you went to a concert
when you wanted to actually hear music
or you know later on it's where people
really it's music that it's so
emotionally so emotionally overwrought
it's like how can I ignore this I'm
gonna ignore somebody like saying
basically suicidal over a heartbreak or
something well I'm sitting here eating a
salad yeah what if some of those songs
are saying our Lord and Savior has come
I mean some of them are yeah when we're
sitting at Starbucks in your truck you
know trying to work on Chinese I don't
want to hear Mariah Carey like talkin
about all she wants for Christmas is you
yeah what and the question I put you
this is just and this is just us joking
amongst ourselves but I say to you how
would people react if this were Muslim
music how would they react if this were
like what if these were pictures
stations but but even the decoration how
would you react if you go to the gym and
there's Muhammad the Prophet or you know
and anything even symbolically relate
to Islam instead or anything Hindu gods
and Hindu celebrations if you guys want
to play this game were you so this
happened with you know a lot of us
courthouses where the courthouse is
displayed the Ten Commandments so I
don't know if you know this is not just
one example this isn't let's happen
repeatedly in the United States and
where the state government said well
it's not religious because we would
allow any other religion also to have a
monument in front of the courthouse so
like it's all religions are equal having
the Ten Commandments in the Bible
displayed
this isn't religious and then in one
case it was actually the Satanists to
applied and it said okay well then we
want equal equal time we want equal
space we want to have a monument to
Satan next thing you know they did it
obviously half half parity and a half as
a serious protest if you're gonna have a
monument to the Ten Commandments and you
can also have a monument to to Satan and
the state government changed their
interpretation of secularism and said
okay no monuments for any religion as
opposed to equal once but none of those
places have a monument to Buddhism or
Hinduism or Islam you know the next one
and I don't I don't believe in that that
for me became most dicey in France when
I was formally enrolled in the process
to become a French citizen I did not
complete that process I'm not a French
citizen but it was really tightly
fiercely debated what secularism meant
in France and in French it's lazy Tay so
it's it's not exactly the same meaning
as secularism or atheism in English and
I was pointing out to the you know the
the instructor your interpretation of
secularism is a mosque on every corner
like that's literally what you're
teaching us is that you know as long as
people have plenty of mosques and
churches to choose between that
secularism and to me it's not that's not
a secre saying when serving you just
mentioned walking around the streets in
France that's government money going
into Christmas festivals is government
money going into a whole society
festooned with church architecture
everywhere you go every block there is
Christian
architecture Christian monuments and I
mean yes Christmas may be the thin edge
of the wedge I mean it's not the same as
a giant marble statue of
race on the cross bleeding but you have
both they're not mutually exclusive one
is reciprocal with the other yeah and
you you want to become a society that in
addition to the government giving three
hundred thousand euros for a Christmas
market where they say ok secularism
means we treat religions equally so
we're also gonna provide a three and a
thousand euro budget for an Islamic
festival that similarly is this what you
want to get into you and where does it
stop I mean the story even if it's just
those two religions even is just well
let's say it's the big three because
that's the French government's attitude
Christianity Judaism in Islam that was
their attitude in the formal meetings to
become a French citizen I don't want to
live with that I don't want to live in a
three fold religious society I want to
live in and actually secularism yeah I
mean part of the season's greetings like
auntie season's greetings is like oh
they're trying to take Christianity out
of society um whereas other people are
like oh no it's a good thing because and
as you say it's possible that we could
have more decorations out for different
religious holiday you know holiday
events but I don't want that either and
I agree with you you know for the first
twenty four years of my life so I'm 26
now I spent every Christmas in the
Detroit area visiting with family we did
the same thing every year you know
growing up I would grew up in a
Christian household we went to church
every Christmas Eve and Christmas Day
and you know it was definitely centered
around the religion but of course you
know as a kid it's it's more fun to open
presents like that aspect of it it's
more fun for a child and you know as I
grew up and as I basically came out as
an atheist to my parents like and said
you know I don't believe in this it came
it became more and more of a I don't
know just more like a conflict going to
church that that was like the event this
was the celebration with our family and
you know I I still would go even though
I wasn't Christian anymore and it was
just like this this conflict or just
like kind of kind of feeling like epic
rant like why am I even here
so I mean I dealt with that for I don't
know I mean quite a few years and last
year when I was with you in Thailand was
the first time I ever was in a place
that it wasn't celebrated and I actually
got to have Christmas in Thailand and it
was like just so much of a relief
because and if you like people stress
out so much about these holidays too and
like it's such a big deal for everybody
and it's become even more commercialized
and stuff that's like unnecessary stress
for something that like we don't even
believe in anymore okay
and you know this is it's a big
percentage of people's income like just
the amount of shopping and expenditure
and holiday money and travel money most
people who are moderately poor middle
class Christmas is a big percentage yeah
I mean I know other society know China
Chinese New Year's the biggest yes drink
it really changes the schedule but I
mean it is really like even with the
schedule of seeing your daughter I mean
like we're thinking about moving to
Taiwan and like oh this is not gonna
line up if we want to do Chinese
language courses because yep plan our
lives around
I know you're seeing some like Facebook
groups for Taiwan there are like
Christmas trees and stuff before but you
know and about two percent of people in
Taiwan are Christian yeah had a big
Christmas tree out front but like you
know things weren't closed for Christmas
and Lutheran churches all around in you
know it was more of a commercials no
there were buddhist temples along Acula
you're saying it's a predominantly
Buddhist Society so anyway I thought
that that was so much better and not
having to the pressure of buying
everybody presents and like you know if
it's if it's really about generosity
like I know some people say that
Christmas is just about like the spirit
of giving and you know that's what Santa
is all about you giving out presents to
the needy and you know I think some
people the only time of the year that
they actually do giving for the holiday
like is only during Christmas like
that's the only time that they would
thing to donate food like at our gym
they have a bucket for donating food to
this organization and there's only it's
only around around Christmas time like
that's the only time of the year and I
think a lot of non
organizations that bank on people trying
to get into the giving spirit only in
December it's like if you really want to
live in a society that's that's
celebrating this like why it wasn't it
more of the year that you were thinking
of this like why can't it be yeah I just
measure I know someone who's a PhD in
German philosophy and she's one of the
only people who has read this really
really influential book in the history
of philosophy politics and especially
religion called v's and Iskra sentence
by flora Bach that is one of the most
influential books that nobody reads
anymore it was a huge hit hugely
influential book in German philosophy
and exactly what you just said which is
what many hold on quote atheists say it
adjusted by Christmas they say oh well
Christmas is about the spirit of
generosity okay do you think we can't do
that with Ramadan do you think they
can't say Ramadan is about the spirit of
blank do you think we can't make cold
unquote secular humanistic values
placeholders to maintain a fundamentally
conservative Christian society
conservative Muslim society and to you
know drown the potential for atheist
skeptics and free thinkers to transform
the society they live in right now what
do you have to say to atheists in Saudi
Arabia if you've met Arabs you know
there are intelligent people I mean
they're not there's this really horrible
racist conceit in the West that somehow
people born Muslim are born mentally
disabled they're not I'm telling you go
out and spend time with them a lot of
them they're as smart as you and I have
you been really biologically they're not
at a disadvantage this way they're not
oh you know whether it's Saudi Arabia or
one of these other cultures what they
are are people that live in a culture
that punishes dissent punishes freedom
of thought and challenging orthodoxy
challenging social assumptions to an
extent
you cannot imagine it's it's an
oppressive culture and that's what our
culture used to be like only a number of
centuries ago I mean it's
depends on where you were in Europe but
I mean just dial back to Italy 500 years
ago look at the Spanish Inquisition I'm
in Spain it's it's a little bit
different the time line for each of the
each of the Western European countries
or Eastern European countries for how we
emerge from having that kind of hyper
authoritarian hyper conformist Society
but you would not say this to a Muslim
you would not say to a Muslim you should
be satisfied with just sorry I mean an
ex-muslim
you would not say to a Muslim atheist an
ex Muslim atheist you should be
satisfied to silently conform in your
culture and just keep observing Ramadan
keep observing Eid keep doing animal
sacrifice key participating in all these
all these festivities while not
believing in them because they represent
the spirit of generosity or the spirit
of blank fill in the blank you would
never do that so and again I know to
some people these are shocking examples
but they're real examples if you live in
a communist society and you don't
believe in communism and you actually do
recognize that communism is responsible
for the deaths of tens of millions of
people I'm sorry I live in Canada the
Anglican Church has blood on its hands I
don't regard the Anglican Church as as
you know harmless I don't regard the
Catholic churches as harmless just
within the history of my own country of
Canada I don't have to go as far as
Australia or South America or other
examples or medieval Europe right here
in Canada within the last 100 years
there were crimes I do not forgive that
the Catholic and Anglican Church
committed and they've gone to court for
them and blah blah blah I mean they're
on the record this stuff ain't secret so
you know it by the same token you would
not say to someone who was an ex
communist or free think honest well you
should just blend in you should just
accept the fact that Lai Fong day so
that's when I talked with the earlier
video you know that that's the spirit of
helping orphans and helping elderly
people and we should just celebrate that
because those are good Communist virtues
even if you don't believe in communism
and way that is a discourse that
actually came to its full pardon me came
to the fore in Europe
specifically because of flora ba who had
this hit book called business Crescent
towns and that was his solution that was
his atheism 2.0 that was his way forward
for atheism was for atheism to move
forward as being a new religion of
humanity of what is truly human to take
the human virtues out of religion and
then celebrate those and hold them up
and interestingly one of the most
powerful negative reactions against that
was Max Turner who is another
philosopher I've talked about on this
channel who said no no no what you're
doing with the real effect of what
you're doing is to take Christianity out
of the church and to Christianize all of
society where now it's not just the the
church it's not just going to church on
Sunday that's Christian now all of
society is going to become sanctified
and religious sized with this view that
that makes these into even more dominant
a humanistic religion and interestingly
so just now my critique of Atlanta boto
and atheism 2.0 that actually is
parallel to that discourse in in 19th
century philosophy what single you think
you're making things better by taking
religion out of the church and putting
it into the university system making
compulsory moral and ethic education
part of the university system and
putting into the arts and museums and
filmmaking no this is actually the the
sanctification this is making you know
making sacred this is bringing religion
into more and more of society as opposed
to less and less so interestingly that's
actually discourse all of my viewers who
have a PhD in German philosophy you know
I was talking about but that's actually
a rare case of something in academic
velocity that's still relevant and ok so
let's let's click on this video big mean
thing thanks I mean oh I'm glad you said
all that and I think it's really true
again the first thing I said in this
video this isn't a dry academic lecture
this is sung as part of our real lives
what for me whether I'm walking the
streets of Montreal or I'm walking the
streets of Paris France whether it's you
know Vancouver or Toronto or London
England the world
was on my mind I Christmas is like for
me growing up there was like two sets of
lies that I had to find out where lies
you know first was Santa Claus yeah I
remember the exact day I think I was
probably like six but I remember I was
on a swing set at my cousin's house my
my cousin that I've told you about
that's kind of a kind of a [ __ ] okay
oh yeah yeah I know the cousin yes she
spilled the beans to me as they say it
was just like the spring and you know I
don't know I guess she thought it would
be funny to tell me like you know she
was a couple years old man says a lie
yeah and so yeah but of course that's
not that big a deal because you still
get presents and it's still like it's
really not that big yeah my parents just
lied to me about this fictional creature
that comes down the chimney right I mean
I guess I'm six years old
you may think that a child could just
come to that conclusion naturally that
size six is a tough age but going yeah I
was you know yeah and say what's same
with Christianity or same with religion
you know like like I was a it was a very
obedient child like you know I I did
what my parents told me so like when
when I was learning about Christianity
and going to Christian Bible school and
stuff and you know I just took it took
my work took my parents word for it like
every night I would say prayers with my
mom and stuff and you know when I was
getting into my teenage years I started
having like really more more
philosophical thoughts about it and
thinking like I mean more basic atheist
thought is is that you know if there is
all this all this pain and suffering in
the world like why would God inflict
that if you know if God knows all and
can is is if he's omnipotent and
omniscient why would he do this so then
you know I I came to know about
atheism somehow I really don't even know
like I guess it was like maybe friends
like I noticed that some friends of mine
just didn't go to church and you know
just like okay there's a different way
to live your life and you know not say
prayers at night just I think that's the
parents at night until a bedtime story
but not not say prayer I think it still
is a rift I think it still is a rift in
your family today yeah oh yeah
definitely
oh yeah well no I just said within your
family there are the people who lean
towards atheism and the people is still
really remain with the church yeah it's
not like a super overt now it's just
screaming at the dinner table thing but
you can see it you can see who leans
that's actually not a theist like his
wife is a theist like you know mapped
eyes done like you know do all these
things so any work that out before you
get married to people you wanna fit you
don't leave that though after anyway
don't leave that till after pregnancy
that's a real bad move yeah yeah after I
you know started realizing on my own or
just like you know somehow I don't
remember like how I first came into that
God isn't real I guess it was probably
just whatever I was reading in at school
mmm but yeah then it was like a whole
other set of lies that I had to write
peel back right so Christmas is just to
me like lying to children in multiple
ways more ways than one yeah so anyway I
just say really briefly I've done videos
in the past I could do more videos but I
was raised by communists and they could
say they were communists extremists or
communists fundamentalists which created
very different conflicts but like Alan
right but like I landed both tones this
showed out a video that went up within
the last 24 hours emotional state it's a
new video but like a landable tone it is
fair to say both of my parents
really yearned for really desired the
accoutrement of religion they still
really wanted religion and religiosity
in their lives and I don't I would not
say that's true of the majority of
communist I don't but there is
definitely a minority of Communists that
you meet often enough who still really
want and value religion one way or
another and of course one of the one of
the big lies in my family was the extent
to which my father really had been
religious for a significant part of his
life before I was born so life - so
there were a lot of lies along and yeah
it shows yeah so you know but communism
also as I was raised with it
the the form of extreme were fundamental
economies it is also a religion built on
lies and there was a different process
of figuring out what what those lies
were yeah yeah okay yes for you like you
grew up with these writings that you
actually you know you as a teenager you
read and you were able to die seven as a
child but going yeah but like again I
feel like there's another layer of like
was I really raised Christian because as
I've been with you like you've you've
talked about you've read the bike yeah I
know the Bible way but like she knows
this right right you got just sort of
Noah's Ark presented as a separate
little story without my mom would like
read to me or like Erik or whatever the
sermon was at church you know like there
was the passage of the Bible but I and I
would sing songs hymns that's right yeah
music music was a big part of Education
yeah hopefully
oh yeah and it's funny like even in
choir but it is fair to say when you
started this relationship you had no
knowledge of the history of the Bible
like where the text comes from and those
questions of yeah we're like what it was
who wrote the story this kind of thing
right yeah I'm
it's great like I feel more enriched and
in that that I've been uncovering these
lies are uncovering these half-truths
that was told as a child but you know
that's another layer of it what's with
Christmas that I just want to say like
you know you're not really like if
you're Christian and reading about Jesus
Christ like I mean this is oh no no it's
it's not really what is focused on today
if with Christmas but it is where it's
from you know it's just like why are we
celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ
and that's really what you know they
look same thing wrong and so you know
yeah celebrating celebrating these
communist communist leaders right yeah
so look just to bring it back to the
core point this video and we're gonna
get we're gonna hit play we're gonna
respond to this this other video about
me um you know my reaction to all of
this is to try to do something positive
to try to create something new in the
culture to try to write new children's
literature and I would be very
interested not just in publishing
storybooks or children but in doing a
cartoon on Netflix or YouTube or
whatever you know I'm interested in the
production of new cultural forms and of
course when I'm making you've seen the
stories Christians could also consume
the Muslims and Theory closer to you
wouldn't I mean it's you know same with
Disney probably plenty of people who
believe in religion consume Disney yeah
but Disney is it is secular they
actually have a corporate commitment to
only doing secular children's
entertainment they don't have religious
content and their films or in the actual
park the actual Walt Disney World Walt
Disney lantern parks but another element
of this that reflects how cosmopolitan
we are in our lives and I'm not boasting
I've no choice I travel all around the
world constantly and have done for the
last 20 years or more
really all my life it's not just the
cultural poverty of children's
literature in English that I'm
complaining about in all these other
languages have studied including German
but Chinese Japanese
loschen Thai Cambodian I've been looking
at what's available in terms of you know
new culture for children's literature
and this is a need all around the world
and also a part of this is about atheism
versus religion part of it is about
nihilism versus communism because I also
reject communism but you know part of it
is also about new versus old that we
just do need new culture to replace old
culture because even the secular fables
for children in German like Max and
Moritz I mean the stuff that exists in
German and French culture from 100 years
ago or even stories like Little Red
Riding Hood Little Red Riding Hood is
about girls being raped and that's what
it's about guys I've read the original
text and you know it's actually they are
you know to be shared with children you
know we really do have a challenge we
have a challenge to generate new culture
for the next generation that is an acute
need in every culture I've studied in
every language of study not just English
and not just in rejecting Christianity
or Islam let's say a play but even the
most hardcore intellectual atheists here
on YouTube who posture as some kind of I
know extreme secularists who are out to
transform study even they say that the
celebration of Christmas is just no
problem at all why it says secular as
the American Constitution or um taking
your vows on a stack of Bibles when you
go to court it's perfectly secular
there's no problem with that
there's no problem with Santa Claus
Santa Claus isn't in the Bible
[Music]
maybe we don't mean to comment it will
just end our video by just playing this
in fact mr. ray theists you're as cuddly
as a cactus you're as charming as an eel
mr. e do use these same people these
secularists and atheists would never
make the same excuses for raising their
children with the annual celebration of
a Muslim holiday if you actually look at
some of the Hindu and Buddhist holidays
what actually happens in them thinking
of a certain Hindu celebration in Nepal
that involves slaughtering and
sacrificing large numbers of cattle
we still have that going on in some
sects of Judaism also you might be
surprised at the durability of animal
sacrifice as a concept in the 21st
century
so the Hindu event you're referencing
here is the gadhimai festival which is a
mass slaughter of animals meant to
appease you guessed it gaudy my a
goddess of power now on the left side of
your screen you'll see a photo of the
aftermath of this disgusting festival in
2014 somewhere in the vicinity of three
hundred thousand animals were beheaded
during that particular festival on the
right you're going to see a nativity
scene
comparing the two seems unfair to say
the least there's a distinct what sorry
how many turkeys are slaughtered for
Christmas how I'm sorry what Wow there's
not a huge field like this sorry homeboy
were vegan I mean you're barking up the
log right now three hundred thousand
cows e [ __ ] compared to the amount of
beef consumers but also the examples I
gave I was include it wasn't a direct
comparison I said there are Muslim
holidays that involve animal sacrifice
there were Jewish holidays sorry I mean
it within Israel which forms of Judaism
still perform those but some of them do
still carry out the biblical and if
you've read the Old Testament animal
sacrifice is part of
Old Testament Judaism very few
Christians still do it but in Israel
it's a thing for Jews to slaughter a
lamb it's in there but do you think
there's a difference between
slaughtering a cow outdoors and doing it
indoors think it's morally superior to
do it on a stainless steel slaughter I
don't yeah and have it I mean isn't it
just a sacrifice look you're asking the
wrong guy I assume they I assume they
don't but one thing hey this is a
comparison look what a ridiculous
response like oh but here's a picture of
dead cows and here's a picture of one
element Christianity how can you compare
it well I compare it I'm sorry so which
one is which one has committed genocide
on more Kaunas Hinduism or Christianity
sorry who who wiped out the indigenous
people of South America Australia Canada
who was it Hindus was it Hindus who do
that would you Hindus go around the
world conquering people by the sword and
forcing them to convert to Hinduism I
mean I'm sorry which one is more like
celebrating Adolf Hitler or Mao Zedong
cuz the Hindus they these Hindus
specifically in Nepal they may still
sacrifice cattle but they're not guilty
of the crimes of the British Empire let
alone getting into the Spanish Empire
with the other great empires of
Christendom and celebrating the suppose
at birth of Jesus with an eel placed
nativity scene prayers and some
Christmas carols I'm not sure what
Buddhist holidays you're referencing
here but since Buddhism is compatible
with atheism I'm not sure how it's
relevant to your overall so much about
photos of my dude cuz you know so much
about Buddhism compared to me oh you're
barking up the wrong tree right now
homie in fact the main point of your
video is that atheists need to replace
the rituals songs etc normally
associated with Christmas with something
else
and you can do that well let me just be
clear again hey I have a five-year-old
daughter who memorizes the cartoons she
watches you may also I mean I don't have
to but many children they really do
memorize and mimic and repeat the
cultural forms they're expose
- my daughter is not a unique example of
this yes I do not want my daughter
memorizing and repeating this kind of
crap I think you also do not want your
daughter or your son memorizing and
repeating back Islamic rituals Islamic
texts Islamic you know dogmatic songs
and statements like why is it so hard to
sympathize with if you are an atheist I
can understand I was talking to a
fundamentalist Christian but if you are
an atheist and you reject Islam and you
reject Buddhism and you reject Hinduism
why is there this unique exception for
this one festival for this one only
where you can't sympathize mom says hey
I want to provide my daughter with
something better because there the
Curious George better than Santa Claus
presents better than Rudolph the
red-nosed reindeer cookies Muslims have
cookies too let's be honest right
Hinduism has cookies too I'll link a few
sources below but some Buddhist sites
recommend celebrating Christmas by
meditating focusing on charity work or
by oh my gosh
or are you an atheist at all yes because
endorsing meditation is so different
from it from endorsing prayer oh my
upping a suffering animal Buddhism also
has a whole set of holidays to replete
with rituals and all that other good
stuff that many people sorry you think I
don't know this I was the one
referencing Buddhist annual rituals I
was a poly scholar I was a scholar of
Buddhism for more than ten years I have
peer-reviewed publications on Buddhism
I've lived in Buddhist countries for
years and years in Southeast Asia I
studied there languages history and
politics you're quoting Wikipedia to
prove what here what does he think he's
proving to me I made a mention of
Buddhism in passing parallel to Judaism
Christianity Islam is just being another
religion and you think this is a
refutation of my view oh my god this is
mouth-breathing level of ignorance
larger on - you wouldn't have your
children participating in any of these
supernatural jewels
moreover okay since your question guys
look up right now
any any of these mass Buddhist rituals
where you have a bunch of people
meditating in front of a statue and
they're playing music and they're
chanting magical words mostly in garbled
Sanskrit I'm sorry if you just do the
little bit of research just as you
looked at that field of slaughtered cows
and you think I don't want my daughter
being there participating in slogging
this cows I do not want my daughter
being brainwashed by any of the big
mainstream Buddhist groups and I think
it's if anything it's much more
dangerous precisely because on the
surface level the aesthetics are more
appealing like if I actually took my
daughter to witness those cows being
slaughtered she'd probably become a
militant vegan she probably while this
is terrible this is disgusting just even
the smell of slaughtered cows up guess
what Buddhism sure you can go and
there's this real nice tranquil surface
layer and there's a guy playing a wooden
drum and chanting and horribly
mispronounced Sanskrit and repeating
these magical ideas that come from
various sutras and wearing these
appealing robes and people sit and
meditate that's much more dangerous I
don't want my daughter doing it I don't
want you doing it and if anything it's
because the exterior is more seductive
look it up but are you an atheist are
you a skeptic you don't look at a bunch
of people sitting in formation chanting
an ancient Sanskrit text and meditating
which is just so different from prayer
to a magical ritual trying to get
magical effects or magic locums and you
see no problem with that stamp of
approval I'm sorry this is just a
contrast me people who are real atheists
and people who are fake atheists in this
book whereas it is genuinely disputed
and contested today whether or not Jesus
Christ ever was an historical figure or
if his origins are entirely mythological
whereas it is disputed whether or not
Moses ever was an historically real
person or if he's just a mythological
figure there's no debate about Adolf
Hitler and there are certain segments of
society who celebrate the birthday of
Adolf Hitler there are still segments of
society who celebrate and revere Joseph
Stalin
Mao Zedong Lenin your choice why why
would you want to keep your child
separate from all of these these
holidays all these celebrations have any
of them killed as many people as
Christianity let's just say that Jesus
did live let's say he was a real man who
lived preached and had a small gathering
of followers not aware of him killing
millions of people in the Bible he
doesn't call for the mass extermination
Oh neither did Karl Marx you idiot I
don't want my daughter worshipping the
Communist Manifesto either Yoji the
fictional character of Jesus didn't
personally murder much neither did Mao
Zedong's he didn't personally murder
millions people celebrating the life of
Mao Zedong represents your approval of
oh my god this is just the stupidest or
use is this guy still in high school I
can't guess his age by his voice this is
twelve-year-old level just
misrepresenting what I've said and what
I said was so clear there how can you
miss her this isn't subtext this is on
the level of the surface layer of the
text misinterpreting and misrepresenting
what I've said I this is just debating
with an idiot an idiot who's not who
identifies as an atheist but who isn't
in the Bible he doesn't call for the
mass extermination of Jews he doesn't
set up ghoul eggs or concentration camps
he didn't starve to torture or imprison
his political adversaries to compare
Jesus to Hitler or Stalin is silly now
I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I did not
you're just misrepresenting me I
compared Christianity the empires of
Christendom to the Nazi Empire and the
various communist empires such as the
Soviet Union and China it was very clear
what I said and I asked you a question
that you dodged you didn't answer I said
which one has killed more people okay
who why is why is Australia full of
white people speaking English how did
that happen homie do you think the
Christian Church here in Chrismukkah is
all of North America
South America full of people speaking
Spanish in South America
how did Spanish and Portuguese become
the majority language of Mexico and
everything south of there you got you
got the impact inside on that
how did Spanish and Portuguese become
such widely spoken language of white why
isn't it one of the languages of India
why isn't everyone speaking Sanskrit
homey well what do you think about that
I mean the history of genocide committed
in Jesus's name is real and you are
dismissing that on the grounds that
Jesus personally didn't commit genocide
Oh
gore yeah and you know what the
principles that made communism so
violent they are in the writing of Karl
Marx and that's why I reject even the
writing of Karl Marx it's not the case
there's some clear moral division where
Marx is good but Stalin is evil Joseph
Stalin was very sincerely trying to
interpret and implement the philosophy
of Karl Marx now as the dong was also
those guys knew Marxism they had
somewhat different interpretations and
took it in different ways
the Communists in Cambodia were really
sincere communists they read Karl Marx
and all of these people were sincere
Christians the Catholic Church the
sickest thing of all is understanding
that the Catholic Church from their
perspective had good intentions in
carrying out that genocide because they
they believed good and evil as they got
it from the Bible oh my god I'm debating
with a mental twelve-year-old here I
have argued that the Christian belief in
hell is a pourraient and most Christians
I've talked to say that hell was taught
by Jesus so I'll give you that if Jesus
was a real person and if he did indeed
teach that we deserve to be tortured for
eternity then he was an awful human
being but to say that teaching people
that they deserve hell is on the same
scale as literally killing millions of
people it's just ludicrous and again not
a fair comparison and the cold hard
truth of rational nihilistic atheism is
that there are no excuses the Christmas
tree is beautiful
I mean it's not nearly as beautiful as
my baby puppy Dexter here but I do like
it you know you won't find in my house
around my Christmas tree anything
remotely
religious there are no Jesus ornaments
or little Wiseman figurines you'll just
find pretty lights a few superhero
ornaments and some colorful bulbs has to
be thrown on the dustbin of history
along with circumcision burning witches
conversion by the sword so many barbaric
regretable traditions again there's a
world of difference between burning
witches and celebrating christmas it's
like you just think up the worst
possible examples and then put them up
with a holiday that is largely benign if
we start stringing up witches on those
trees then I'll gladly take your
comparison into consideration you're not
just competing with the I don't know how
I don't know no no I just you just said
that somebody had responded to their to
you III lose a huge apartment he doesn't
look like he's 12 years old he has own
apartment it's just stupid it's not
saying yeah I know sorry but he doesn't
respond to any no is isn't Ramadan
anaphase I'm sorry isn't worshiping the
Kaaba in Mecca beautiful everyone
wearing matching costumes and doing this
dance around the Kaaba what about isn't
it beautiful celebrating that the
standard Zen ritual every morning of
waking up and that this particular
wooden drum being being played and
chanting this garbled Sanskrit Sutra and
how about in whatever we can get into
Taiwanese folk religion and Taoism isn't
it beautiful
is it right or is it wrong and I'm sorry
you know do you think you could have
this perspective whiteboy if you were
born cree or a jib way or an indigenous
person of the hawaiian islands do you
think you would have this perspective
that christianity and christmas is
harmless if you were one of the
last people struggling to speak the
indigenous languages of California like
Yurok or out in the middle of the
Arizona desert trying to cling to the
last of the den a languages if you were
ethnically a member of one of the
peoples destroyed by Christianity okay
ethnically I'm Jewish how do you think I
feel about Martin Luther and Luther ISM
there's a very direct connection between
Luther ISM in 1870 Luther basically
reinvented eighty semitism you guys look
into it you wrote a book in German
called
D Juden and Aaron lugan the Jews and
their lies
it totally galvanized and redefined
anti-semitism and it was held up you can
see photographs of this the photographs
of the crowds at Hitler rallies when
they did this build there were people
there holding up Martin Luther's book
were the the form of Nazi anti-semitism
was very much a direct inheritance of an
expansion of the anti-semitism of Martin
Luther obviously the Gospels are less
anti-semitic than Martin Luther and
Martin Luther is less anti-semitic than
Adolf Hitler but nevertheless Martin
Luther was an extreme anti-semite and he
created a whole new moon Edison that led
to eventually the deaths of nice people
how do you think I feel walking past
Lutheran Church and knowing that and yes
my relatives my ancestors did die in the
Holocaust they were exterminated I also
have relatives and ancestors who were
exterminated by communism to some extent
by the way um you know end up and I've
known people face-to-face who were
external suffered terribly and their
relatives were exterminated by eg
communism but the American bombing of of
Southeast Asia these things are not
unique it's not just Christianity
there's plenty of suffering to go around
do you think you could divorce the
symbols of Christianity from what they
symbolize if you were an indigenous
person in Hawaii if you work reor a Jib
way if you were one of the peoples any
of the peoples who've suffered under
christian imperialism and again if you
go to north africa there are people
there who know that they've suffered
under Islamic imperialism anyone who
pose the Islamization of their society
because they know the history III
there's one guy I knew I mean there are
very few of these there was one guy I
knew who was ethnically from central
Afghanistan so and he really knew that
his people on his tribe used to be
Buddhists and they were forced to
convert to Islam at the sword and he was
genuinely interested in reviving
Buddhism as a religion within
Afghanistan obviously the guy was really
an atheist obviously was a modern
atheist it wasn't interesting going back
to medieval Buddhism or something but he
thought it was really important to
emphasize look Islam is not the
indigenous religion of Afghanistan this
was done to us you know we were
conquered by an empire our Buddhist
monuments were destroyed our temples
were burned down and we were given a
choice to either to convert to this
religion or die and here in Canada that
is not ancient history that was still
going on in my childhood and [ __ ] you
all you've got to say is the Christmas
tree is beautiful so it's ok if I was
choosing my religion based on the
architecture I would choose his Lomb
there are Muslim temples with gorgeous
architecture all around the world if I
was choosing my religion based on the
food probably I choose Taoism Daoists
have good food actually a south korean
buddhism they have pretty good food
Shifu you know if I was choosing my
religion based on the tea and coffee I
mean the home the aesthetics of what
religions are when are we going to move
past this it's it's mind-blowing to me
this is a lot stupider than I could have
possibly imagined christmas-tree you're
competing with the Sistine Chapel you're
competing with the assembled beauty and
sculpture and works of art and
architecture accomplishments and
traditions and songs and poetry of
centuries and millennia and what are you
gonna replace it with I'm glad you asked
we're replacing it with a secularized
version of Christmas about eight hours
of kids right yeah okay so if that's
good enough for you I don't think this
guy's kids if that's good enough for you
fine but if you're an atheist you should
be able to sympathize with me saying
that's not good enough for my daughter I
also don't really want my daughter
growing up with Curious George not the
Curious George is evil I'd like her to
have something better and more
meaningful than Curious George I'd like
to have something better and more
meaningful than Mickey Mouse and Batman
and Superman and spider-man and those
are secular icons and their icons and
their cultural influential nonetheless
my childhood was influenced by Batman
I've talked about that before in many
ways Batman may be more influential than
Christianity maybe in Manhattan Island
today and the most secular parts the
United States today you know among
certain kinds of cynical teenagers
growing up if that's good enough for you
I think you really have to question the
sincerity of your own atheism I think
you're being very insincere and
duplicitous I don't think you're lying
to us I think you're lying to yourself
but why would you be incapable of
sympathizing with me in my position when
I just had to say that is not good
enough I took this unscientific poll on
Twitter where I asked whether it was a
good idea for atheists to celebrate
Christmas so far the overwhelming
majority think it's fine
and if you comb through those responses
you'll find atheists who don't think
about religion at all but who celebrate
family food presents friends but you
never answer any of the questions I
posed so what about Muslims how is that
how this culture Saudi Arabia is gonna
change is that other culture of Malaysia
or Turkey you know relatively moderate
so just so everything's gonna stay the
same in the next hundred years and in
your lifetime nothing's gonna change
you're not gonna challenge the Christian
is that which were in any way not even
with your own child or the school your
child is enrolled at and you're fine
with your child going to a majority
Muslim school that celebrates and
teaches Muslim holidays you say oh just
conform just go with the flow just
celebrate you know family and love and
generosity and another ABS and the food
and enjoy the architecture and enjoy the
beauty of the Christmas tree and enjoy
the decorations in the mosque enjoy the
mosque architecture enjoy the music
enjoy the aesthetics of it while not
believing in it and then you know
Christian dominated society never has to
change and Muslim dominated society
never changed think about the next
hundred years homeboy
think about the next thousand years yeah
you know what you got 82
of your followers on Twitter support
your position that's not surprised and
guess what
those are the people who are not going
to lift a finger to make any kind of
positive cultural change or any kind of
positive political change we can do a
poll of vegans hey who thinks veganism
is just a lifestyle
who thinks veganism is just about being
healthy and sexy and fit and probably
it's 82 percent of vegans okay what
percentage of people actually want to
get organized and go Lobby provincial
Parliament go Lobby the state
legislature on this animal rights issue
involving elephants or dolphins or
something maybe it's 1% maybe it's 2%
that's the 2% that's gonna change the
world who do you think means seatbelts
mandatory we'll do a poll back in 1952
what percentage of people want seatbelts
to be mandatory 2% who cared
80 85 percent of I don't give a [ __ ]
about seatbelts [ __ ] air guess what
2% of people got organized and change
the world cuz they cared they wanted to
make the world a better place and
exactly what's odd early lacking in this
contemporary ideas discourse is any
sincere impulse try to make the world a
better place and a few days off work
this closely mirrors something I read in
an article recently here's what it said
quote such friction as long roots in
American history says Boston University
of religion professor Steven Prothero
Christmas may be a religious holiday but
it's also deeply secular creating a
natural conflict there have always been
people in America who want to make it
more religious more Christian he said
but the reason they're doing that is
that Christians have largely lost
control of the holiday his 2003 book
American Jesus talks about how Jesus has
been claimed and remade by other faiths
and cultures in the United States the
same has happened with Christmas he says
it isn't just a Christian holiday
anymore it's a lot of other things he
said ironically he adds maintaining that
balance probably helps keep Christmas
front and center end quote
some atheist have replaced it with
things like Newton Mass but the bottom
line here is that like the Grinch
Christians stole Christmas not from the
who in Whoville but from the pagans who
celebrated the winter solstice and since
then it is evolved further it has been
largely secularized and you can
celebrate the holiday without
celebrating Christ to be honest it's a
bit funny to me that Christians will
often talk about giving up worldly
wealth but they're stolen sacred holiday
is now a day built on
rampant consumerism I don't feel I'm
stepping into the shoes of anyone else
who's who's made this ever before that's
the that's the weirdest thing if you
come on the internet and say you want to
start a new fad have you idea you
normally you have a lot of precedents to
look around that you're a real
trailblazer my friend the groundwork is
already done now feel free to make up
your own way of celebrating Yule or
whatever you want to call it but
millions of us have already done that
and continue to do you haven't made up
anything you're just doing exactly what
you were taught by your parents I mean
things have not changed for decades no
but show me country is this is how you
celebrate Christmas
what do you mean that you think show me
the story book you read show me the
story book you reach your daughter show
me the cartoon you show your kids
instead of the Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer could show me the alternative
you show me the songs you sing because
again partly for language practice I'm
looking for that in Chinese and in the
past Japanese not stoned Japanese more
I've looked at it in French and German
not just English but English is this
mega language globally you're not
producing that you're not engaged in
cultural reduction you're not competing
with Rudolph and Santa you're not
competing with these nests where recycle
bells let's just right I mean the name
is Ray Price has Christian in its base
and look I this came up there was a
vegan on YouTube who wore a Nazi t-shirt
he wore a swastika on his t-shirt so in
that context I mentioned this ok him
wearing a t-shirt that is Pro Adolf
Hitler that has a swastika on it and his
Pro Nancy had the word Nancy on it also
the particular t-shirt okay so it's
completely explicit it was a Nazi
swastika it's not a Buddhist swastika
cars Lee why is that bad it's not bad
because he's directly hurting anybody or
killing anybody
I think the particular guy has never
hurt anyone he's never assaulted a
Jewish person or burned down a synagogue
it's not bad because he's in any way
involved in or implicated in or morally
responsible for the atrocities committed
by Nazis okay the symbol is bad
because of what it symbolizes because of
what it tells me about you it tells me
you the guy wearing that Nazi t-shirt is
willing to conform with and collaborate
with and cooperate with neo-nazis that
he approves of and supports in the past
tense
something Adolf Hitler did so the Nazi
Party did okay your Christmas tree and
your Lutheran Chapel the the outward
trappings of Christianity here in Canada
you don't think they're symbolically
related to the genocide of our
indigenous peoples the disappearance of
our native language the whole
transformation of this culture on this
continent by christened oh you don't
think so I think it's much more
powerfully connected than the British
flag or the current Queen of England the
Queen of England can say she's not
responsible for that or that her crown
doesn't symbolise that that is
absolutely what Christianity symbolizes
and again what if you were an indigenous
person from South America or Hawaii or
any of these places that work that were
ruled under by Christianity it is true
the symbol regarded in isolation is not
evil and is not harmful the Christmas
tree doesn't harm anyone and that's why
these comparisons are important is that
you're just less familiar with the other
symbol in in Mecca the Kaaba that the
celebrations of Islam they in themselves
do not hurt anybody there's no harm but
what do they symbolize they symbolize
the total destruction of Afghanistan
which didn't just wiped out Buddhism and
animism and what was generally a more
permissive open-minded society that
easily could have become today that at
least as modern and westernized as a
place like Japan there was the potential
there it created an absolutely horrible
society that we all deplore today
dominated by the Taliban a society that
even moderate Muslims deplore okay that
was what was created by that so by
approving of that symbol it tells me
something about you it's not really a
moral judgment on the Nazis and it's not
really a moral judgment on the Christmas
tree and it's not a moral judgment on
the Bible or Jesus it's about you
what kind of person you aspire to be and
what kind of society you aspire to be a
part of and what you're willing to do as
an activist or leader of public opinion
to try to achieve it and we all know
homeboy in your case it's nothing
you think it's harmless to raise your
kid celebrating Christmas then why don't
you think it's harmless to take them
down to the mosque and raise them with
Islam
why don't you think it's harmless to
raise them in in Hinduism you think it's
harmless because it's familiar
you think it's harmless because the
constant barrage of advertising has made
this particular religion its particular
superstitions lies cultural values
irrational and in an ADIZ seem so
familiar I do sympathise with your point
here so why didn't you make a video
saying that yeah exactly what when I won
the last minute of the video exactly
what has been missing here is sympathy
you couldn't open with this is a
middle-aged man I'm 40 years old I have
a five-year-old daughter this is a man
who wants to do better for his own
daughter and his own family who's
struggling to buy Dan an alternative to
Christmas and something meaningful in
his daughter's life and who's interested
in publishing this story book so you
also with weight less effort can buy the
story book and read your kids something
meaningful that's not rooted in
Christianity or communism or Islam or
something awful why isn't there sympathy
and why isn't there a positive tendency
like I said before to recruit talent for
us to work together having me on your
channel I mean the level of hostility
self-righteous hostility you sound like
a Catholic I know I know it's normal for
me to agree with you but like I mean
when you say that it's just about being
familiar that really is the case and I
feel like you you were just going to you
are going to encounter criticism right
like forever you know by doing this and
like you know as you said agreeing to
put up a Christmas tree agreeing to do
the whole write the whole shebang of
getting
presents having a Christmas tree putting
on another tree blah blah blah
having a big celebration with a bunch of
meat dairy and horrible food you know
this is all the trappings of Christian
society and it's saying that you will
agree with other Christians you you can
cooperate with other Christians and
that's really like I think the
fundamental difference is that I don't
want to cooperate I don't want to just
do what my family is done like like if I
were still like if I hadn't been you
know if I had started relationship with
you and moved away you know like if I
were still in Michigan I think I would
still feel this way I would just not
want to celebrate Christmas because even
for me like just the food aspect alone
makes it like impossible for me to want
to sit down at a table with my with my
family when they're eating this horrible
carnist food and like so the food alone
the religion alone I mean all these are
factors that make me not want to
participate in it and it shows me that
like really the only thing that you feel
differently about is that you don't
believe in God but you're willing to
cooperate and like do the same things as
everybody else in the society and this
is why I like I like I really hope that
we do move to Taiwan like I really want
to be part of a culture that is not
Christianity because and it's it's sad
for me like thinking you know like I I
am totally like down with with what your
coming out I think like the stories that
are coming over they're great and I love
that it's meaningful and I'm like you
know they don't Socrates and yes like I
want these these stories to be out there
and for other for other families to
start celebrating this but I feel like
it's gonna be such a small like minor
change and I feel that way about
veganism to like I just want to like
instead of being up against opposition
for the rest of my life and like trying
to raise a child in in a society that is
so like based on Christianity even if
you say like your secular now even if
you're celebrating Christmas in a
secular way it's still based on it and
you're still it's all the trappings of
of Christian society I feel like I would
rather instead of putting up with that
opposition and constantly being on you
know up against up against a brick wall
you know living in it instead moving
somewhere else where like more people
are vegan you know more people are not
Christian more people are just either
secular or Buddhist which is just not
look and it's sad for me it's every
because I like you said I what I wish
there was more crock work cooperation
and like would like with veganism what
do you first started your channel there
was so much backlash like what you were
saying but nobody's trying to accrue
talent nobody's trying to work with you
everyone's working against you why don't
you do a fundraiser for my children's
story like still want to celebrate your
work in the fashion industry you're not
like when I first started this bit like
when I first start washing this I was
thinking in my mind like maybe as well
like just appreciate that the show
exists at all just because I remember
seeing you were like Twitter like nobody
is responding to this or like no nobody
in there right like rode on YouTube is
wanting to cooperate with me or like why
not even make a response video to this
all I'm getting is negativity and this
is it's just it seems to be a negativity
and like saying like well it's we we
already have the the Atheist alternative
to Christmas which is Miss uh Wow novel
thinking like really you think that we
thinking that way like it like that we
want something we don't want something
different so yeah I mean it's it's sad
that they can't just be like alright
you're maybe you're right man like maybe
maybe after reflecting on it I haven't
been thinking about Christmas in this
way and now I can think about it
differently you don't try to come up
with something else or maybe and support
you or keep saying you know right sure
or just sympathize did you just say hey
that he personally is gonna keep on
celebrating Christmas yeah but he sees
this as a positive project to write new
stories and make new cartoons and new
storybooks because the world needs more
quality children's entertainment that's
raising legitimate philosophical issues
and interesting ideas for kids in a
relatable way um I also have a
background in cult studies I would say
the elements of Buddhism and communism
that are cult-like
and I've talked about the elements of
political movements that are called like
like within veganism that are cult-like
and you know III should be preaching to
the converted here when I say to an
audience of atheists
religion is dangerous right so on I have
the option of raising my daughter Jewish
right I also have the option of becoming
a citizen of Israel by the way if you
didn't know if you're Jewish enough you
can become a citizen of Israel two month
process kind of thing why do you think I
don't teach my daughter that she's part
of a special magical master race of
people that God chose and that the whole
world's history is about her and that
Israel is the center of the world and
the most important people in the history
of the world that's all why why do you
think I don't teach her that the the ego
trip itself is dangerous and again I've
caught up look the vast majority of Jews
I knew were atheists the majority of
Jewish rabbis I have met were atheists
there were people who valued the
tradition and the ethnicity and the
culture and who did not believe in God
they did not believe in praying to a God
who would listen to you and if they did
not believe in that the vast majority of
Jews Judaism is still an incredibly
dangerous religion partly because it
tells people things they want to hear
like you're special beautiful you're
part of a special master race and the
atrocities being committed by the
government of Israel don't matter and
they're okay because of this specialness
the scale of the atrocities the world
transforming effect of the empires of
Christendom is many orders of magnitude
larger and it is I mean most of my time
on this channel I'm criticizing
communism Mao Zedong is responsible for
a minimum 30 million deaths I don't even
want probably it's more than 50 million
but minimum minimum 30 million deaths
Cambodia another one of these one of
these disasters and in communism but I
mean you know even if you're an atheist
Jew you're a Jewish family that is
openly atheist and you teach your kid no
no God is just a superstitious idea or
it's just this version in the Bible but
you're only teaching them the other
components of secularized duty as
or completely secular Zionism that is
dangerous and you guys should be able to
relate to that and I really think the
only reason you can't perceive that
danger in Christmas is exactly what I've
already said and what was quoted back
because it's familiar then because you
associate it with I don't know
gift-giving and your grandma feeding you
food you like or whatever it is you
would I said this in all the videos you
would expect a Muslim to have more moral
courage than that you would expect an
ex-muslim to stand up and say no more
we've got to change no more arranged
marriage no more circumcision no more
female genital mutilation
no more Ramadan that's what you expect
people to do in Malaysia and Saudi
Arabia and Indonesia and Turkey you
expect them to stand up and say I don't
want to live in the medieval past
anymore I want to represent an
optimistic different better future
culture and you won't do that yourself
when there's there's no risk and you
won't even sympathise with me what I'm
doing it and it costs you nothing to
just say hey man oh good effort
you know not everybody satisfied with
Curious George and not everyone is
satisfied with Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer and it's not just Rudolph the
reindeer Davis I mean do you know even
in school they're singing and they're
hearing songs that say the Lord and
Savior is come that is what Christmas is
about
it's not Rudolph must why is Santa's
name Santa do you know the meaning of
the word Santa he's a saint I mean at
the level of self-deception here what do
you think you're celebrating silent
night holy night I grew up singing that
I don't think you're entirely wrong
either you can certainly make a
compelling case that Christmas can and
sometimes does embolden Christians and
make them feel as though we're adding a
legitimacy to their nonsense beliefs and
you're right that we do celebrate
Christmas and not Ramadan because of the
culture we were born into but I also
think that when atheists do celebrate
Christmas they're making it their own in
actually lessening or removing the
Christian elements over time it will
likely be a wholly secular holiday to
most accept
few fringe Christians who will continue
to celebrate it as if it has a religious
significance but maybe I'm wrong and you
agree with Baz anymore to say I feel
like I've said it all it's the ultimate
lazy self-indulgent fantasy that
Christianity is just going to get weaker
and weaker and disappear from this earth
and I don't think you're saying that
about Islam and you're not saying that
about communism so even if it were true
of Christianity have you been to Georgia
have you been to Las Vegas Las Vegas
Nevada is still an intensely Christian
town despite the gambling and the
prostitution and the strippers I mean
it's mind blowing in America you have
these juxtapositions but these are
intensely Christian places just look at
the list of Christian colleges and
Christian schools how many people are
still going to Catholic school even in
my own neighborhood in Canada
Christianity is a tremendously powerful
force if that were true even if I
conceded the point that Christianity is
just gonna wither up and dry away
without you lifting a finger without you
getting uncomfortable without you making
the effort to offer an alternative to
Curious George and Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer you have to recognize that's
not gonna happen with Islam how is gonna
drag Afghanistan into the 21st century
how is that gonna happen you know you
you're kidding who is gonna drag China
out of communism how is that gonna
happen
I'm very interest in that also you know
I mean I'm sorry but the depth of
self-deception here it is a fatuous
self-serving deception like I said the
beginning of this video that all you
have to do is sit back and laugh all you
have to do is sit back and scorn these
people and you're gonna win I mean we we
know somebody we have a friend who you
know she knows that God isn't real like
I mean like in her own personal belief
system she is atheist but because the
Christian Church is organized because
that's where you can bring your kids for
child care where you can other mothers
who are raising children of their own
where there's a community
somebody people around with common
values you know like about being a
morally upright person I really don't
see the church going away if there's no
alternative if there's no other
community like if the if a theist don't
get together and say okay well this is
like this is a group of people where
we're all involved like we're trying to
be bringing families together and stuff
like no I mean especially with how
society is moving toward being less and
less connected I think there might be
yeah in a future where there's a
backlash like oh let's get more church
like more people into church just
because we're dealing we're all dealing
with loneliness inflicted from inflicted
by you know yeah and we we we have lived
through so you guys probably guess my
girlfriend is younger than I'm we have
lived through an era of religious wars
since the year 2001 I can remember what
the world was like before 2001 my
girlfriend somewhat less so yes some
memories being here just a lot younger
than me your whole life has been in the
shadow of wars between the American
Empire and Islam broadly speaking just
to simplify a little bit and my early
childhood was the American Empire versus
communist on the Soviet Union
particularly and you know that's a big
change in the world if you think
religion matters less today how about
those elections in Iraq
I mean couple I mean even if you look at
the Republican Party I'm sorry if it's
true in the Democrat Party it's true
Obama and and you know the Clinton
family
Bill Clinton go into Church you wouldn't
believe all those people went to church
like clockwork
totally cynical but I mean you know all
of those people are reppin that their
their good Christian souls you think
religion doesn't matter in American
Parliament in American Congress and the
Senate you think religion doesn't matter
in Iraq's Parliament and Senate you must
be kidding these are tremendously
powerful forces on planet Earth and
there are always rewards for being a
conformist Melissa you recently met a
woman with a PhD face-to-face
who knows how evil the Communist Party
is and she's a communist party member
she's gonna conform her whole life she's
gonna March the party line she's gonna
tow the party line I want to put it my
teacher who I was close personal friends
with in China
Communist China she's a member of the
Communist Party she knows she knows the
reality of what communism was and what
it still is and she's decided to
compromise she's made that she's made
that commitment and I noticed I think
both of those women they decided to
never have children they're both child
free which is interesting do you want to
raise your children believing that Mao
Zedong was a good person or do you want
them to know the truth do you want to
know about the deaths the heroin
horrible deaths of tens of millions of
people we're not gonna get into it here
do you want to be honest about this do
you want to be honest with your kids
about why Afghanistan is Muslim and what
they were before and how that happened
it was conversion by the sword is an
unbelievably brutal history the real
history of Muslim empires rising and
falling what they've left on earth
including the slave trading and the
forced circumcision of adult males
literally with the sword I've read stuff
that'll give you nightmares and I've
already said this a hundred times in
this video if you think the British
Empire is prettier in some ways the
British Empire is even worse comparisons
are odious but they're both incredibly
bloody and brutal empires that you know
I've had cultural that have resulted in
cultural genocide on an enormous scale
so you know the question you have to ask
yourself is do I want to live a lie and
if the answer is no what is the truth
worth to you for me it's worth making
that little bit of an effort to try to
make original stories and probably
cartoons and storybooks and puppet shows
we got the puppets here for Socrates and
the Fox and Socrates in the Panda we're
gonna actually act these out make it fun
and interesting for my daughter and
those stories I'm worried in I I'm
totally comfortable with my daughter
memorized
with performing them year after year
after year and they have a fundamentally
more positive message than singing
silent night holy night and they are
fundamentally way more meaningful than
Curious George all right one hour 30
minutes babe that's a wrap